# ADHD_Sex_fMRI_model

**WiDS Datathon 2025**

In this challenge, you will work with a subset of the whole HBN phenotypic dataset and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (or MRI) data. MRI data were collected in 4 different sites: Staten Island, RUBIC, CBIC, and CUNY. As part of the HBN study, multiple MRI datasets were collected, such as structural (or T1-weighted), diffusion-weighted imaging (or DWI), and functional MRI (or fMRI). fMRI data include both resting state data and naturalistic video watching data. Here, you will work with functional connectivity matrices derived from resting state fMRI data. 

 

**Functional connectivity**, which is a measure that attempts to summarize how different brain regions may interact with each other, is a vital part of brain imaging. Functional connectivity graphs or matrices were created from resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (or rs-fMRI) data. 

 

**Resting-state** refers to any period of time in which the brain of a subject is awake and alert - not actively engaged in a task, but not asleep. You can also think of this state as a sort of mind-wandering. 

 

**Functional MRI (fMRI)** uses a principle called Blood Oxygen Level Dependency (BOLD) to measure brain activity. When a brain area is more active it consumes more oxygen and to meet this increased demand blood flow is directed to the active area. 

 

**Functional connectivity matrices** are generated by correlating BOLD activity in different regions of the brain. In this case, a functional connectivity matrix would typically be a Pearson correlation of the timeseries of a pair of voxels or regions of interest (ROIs) defined prior to the study. Functional connectivity succinctly tells us which regions of the brain have the same patterns of activity, opposite patterns of activity, or little to no relationship. 

**Objectives:**  

“What brain activity patterns are associated with ADHD; are they different between males and females, and, if so, how?” 
The task is to create a multi-outcome model to predict two separate target variables: 1) ADHD (1=yes or 0=no) and 2) female (1=yes or 0=no). 
